## 6765_california_tomato_vine_and_leaf_issues
* askextension_tomato_california/6765_california_tomato_vine_and_leaf_issues
  - The tomato plants in the picture are looking rather yellow and not too healthy. If the leaves on the bottom and middle are dying I would suspect a spider mite infestation or some fungal disease. The sprinkler may be adding enough leaf moisture to make this fungal disease worse. I would suggest some increase fertility, do not sprinkle irrigate and send healthy and unhealthy leaves to an Extension office near your area to see if it is a fungal disease because it is difficult to tell from a picture.
    
## 20310_california_my_tomato_plants_have_ple
* askextension_tomato_california/20310_california_my_tomato_plants_have_ple
  - Hello Gardener,I'm in Alabama, but this sounds familiar to many gardeners in any location.While we all love a fresh tomato, they are one of the most persnickety of all veggies to grow. They need consistent soil moisture (not too wet, and never dry) - cool soil (mulch is a must) - air temp's between 60F-90F (each variety varies in preference though) - steady nutrition - soil calcium - soil pH between 6.0-7.0 - and patience.When tomatoes fail to set fruit, I normally suspect stress either from moisture (too much or not enough), temperature (nights too cool/too hot,or days too hot), or excess nitrogen. Noticing your location, I'll suspect the cool nights are causing the flowers to drop. They do this anytime an environmental stress causes the pollen to fail. Dead pollen then makes the flower drop off the plant.Once the temperatures are a little warmer, you plants should set fruit as expected.I hope this information was helpful. Happy gardening.