## 6765_California
* askextension_tomato/6765_California
  - The tomato plants in the picture are looking rather yellow and not too healthy. If the leaves on the bottom and middle are dying I would suspect a spider mite infestation or some fungal disease. The sprinkler may be adding enough leaf moisture to make this fungal disease worse. I would suggest some increase fertility, do not sprinkle irrigate and send healthy and unhealthy leaves to an Extension office near your area to see if it is a fungal disease because it is difficult to tell from a picture.
    
## 20310_California
* askextension_tomato/20310_California
  - Hello Gardener,I'm in Alabama, but this sounds familiar to many gardeners in any location.While we all love a fresh tomato, they are one of the most persnickety of all veggies to grow. They need consistent soil moisture (not too wet, and never dry) - cool soil (mulch is a must) - air temp's between 60F-90F (each variety varies in preference though) - steady nutrition - soil calcium - soil pH between 6.0-7.0 - and patience.When tomatoes fail to set fruit, I normally suspect stress either from moisture (too much or not enough), temperature (nights too cool/too hot,or days too hot), or excess nitrogen. Noticing your location, I'll suspect the cool nights are causing the flowers to drop. They do this anytime an environmental stress causes the pollen to fail. Dead pollen then makes the flower drop off the plant.Once the temperatures are a little warmer, you plants should set fruit as expected.I hope this information was helpful. Happy gardening.
  
## 146_Colorado
* askextension_tomato/146_Colorado
  - Suggestions:1.   A soil test done by the CSU Soil Lab or another local lab may be useful. While a soil test cannot determine what types of fungi are in the soil, it may give you an indication of what is wrong with the soil, if anything.  For example, a high level of salts (salinity) in the soil can damage roots of tomatoes, resulting in browning of leaves.  High salts could result from using too much fertilizer or too much manure in the soil.       See Horticultural Applications for Gardeners at http://www.soiltestinglab.colostate.edu/2. Try to grow tomato plants in a different area of the garden in 2013.   IF soil-borne disease is the problem, moving tomato plants to another part of the garden will help.  Where tomatoes grew in 2012, grow anything other than tomatoes or relatives eggplant, peppers, potatoes, tomatillos .3. Try growing tomato plants with multiple disease resistance - the letters/abbreviations after the tomato name indicate that variety has some resistance to disease.     For example, the letters VFATTSWV after a tomato variety name indicates it has some resistance (NOT immunity) to several common tomato diseases. 4. Avoid watering tomatoes with overhead irrigation, which promotes foliar diseases.   Ideally, apply water at the soil level, for example with drip irrigation.5. Ensure that soil for tomatoes is loose and well-drained.   Compacted clayey soils often result in root rots and in turn, poor tomato production.   Adding sand to a clayey soil usually backfires.   Better to add organic materials to the soil to amend and loosen it.See also: http://www.ext.colostate.edu/pubs/garden/02949.htmlhttp://www.ext.colostate.edu/pubs/garden/07235.html
    
## 148_Oregon
* askextension_tomato/148_Oregon
  - There is an actual recipe in the latest edition of the Ball Blue Book on page 65.  It makes a good base and then when you open it, make a rue with butter, flour and milk and slowly add the soup base and it makes a great soup.  This is however  a pressure canned version.  I have also taken the tomato vegetable juice recipes in the OSU PNW 300 publication on canning tomatoes.  In this recipe you add  3 cups of  chopped vegetables such as onions, celery, garlic and carrots to 22 pounds of tomatoes.  Cooked the mixture until tender, and puree.  Then continue cooking it until it thickens into  a sauce.  I can mine in pints.  Be sure to  add 1 T bottled lemon juice per pint and process in a boiling water canner for 35 minutes  or add 2 T lemon juice per quart and process for 40 minutes.  This added to a rue of butter, flour and milk is excellent.  Be careful to slowly add the tomatoes to the rue so the soup does not curdle.  You can season it to taste after you make the soup.l  (I like to add a little basil, powdered garlic, salt and little sugar to taste.Good luck and thanks for using Ask and Expert Nellie Oehler
  